Microsoft Loop provides a platform for ideas and projects
to keep planning and brainstorming all in one place.
It is made up of 3 main features
workspaces,
these are a collection of pages which can be shared and generate ideas.
Work pages,
these make up main content within a workspace.
And components,
these are portable pieces of content that can be extracted and
shared to other Microsoft platforms such as Teams and Outlook,
but will still always automatically sync back to loop.
You can access Microsoft Loop via any SharePoint homepage.
You can also add and loop into your Microsoft Teams app
by selecting the three dots icon and then searching loop and selecting.
Right click on loop and select pin,
and now you can access and use loop within your Teams app.
To create a new workspace,
simply select the plus icon in the top left
menu bar and then select the option new workspace.
For this example,
we are going to create a new workspace called study to store notes and ideas.
Type study where it says type a name,
hover over the workspace image and then select update cover.
Search and select one of the cover images available from the image library
and then select update to save.
You can also add an emoji icon if you wish.
If you wanted to share this workspace with a colleague,
you type their name into the share your space section and select.
In this example,
we will not be adding anybody else.
Select create
You will now be in the new workspace you just created.
However,
to click back to the homepage at any point,
simply select the loop icon in the top left corner.
You will now see your new workspace show up on your homepage.
You can edit it at any time by selecting the
three dots in the top right corner of the workspace
and selecting the option to rename and style.
Let's click back into our new workspace and explore some of its features.
As a default,
Loop will create a blank page for you to begin editing,
however,
you can choose any of the templates along the bottom
of the page and then customise as you wish.
Or you can also select template gallery to view more template options.
All of these also have a cover image which you
can customise by searching and selecting from the image library.
This makes it easy to identify different pages within a workspace.
You can also change the page icon.
Any of the component sections can be edited,
deleted,
or you can add a new section.
To delete,
select the dots icon to the left of the component and select the option to delete.
To add a new component,
simply type the forward slash icon
and it shows up all the options.
Select the one that you want to insert,
and it will add the component template into your work page.
Let's add some checklists bullets as an example.
Explore and have a go adding some of the other component
templates to see what you can do with your page.
The aim is to organise your information simply and effectively for best use.
You can also add subpages within a main page.
You will then see it show up underneath that page on the left-hand sidebar.
You can select the main work page to go back to that page
and to navigate easily within your pages.
You can also insert other documents and data by selecting the plus icon
and choosing the option to upload a file.
You will now see it displayed within that page in the menu bar.
Another option is you can add a link to a webpage,
which will then show up within your workpage side menu bar.
Lastly,
you can add another workpage within this
study workspace to keep everything organised.
This way you can easily find what you need when you need it.
The best thing about Microsoft Loop is that because it is part of Microsoft Office,
it fully integrates with Microsoft Outlook and Microsoft Teams.
For example,
whenever you mention a person's name or assign them a task,
they will get an Outlook notification
which are linked to the work page
as well as the task showing up in Microsoft Teams.
So tasks assigned via Microsoft Loop can fully integrate into existing
task-based systems you may already be using within Microsoft Teams.
Thanks for watching.
I hope this gives you confidence and some ideas for
how you can make the most out of Microsoft Loop.